---
title: Computer-Mediated Communication
layout: post
category: misc
excerpt: An essay written for Computers and Society, a required course for Computer Science majors at Northeastern University.  The essay required us to write about potential effects on communication of then-proposed anti-piracy legislation.
---

> An essay written for [Computers and Society](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/perrolle/soc528/syllabus.html), a required course for Computer Science majors at Northeastern University.  The essay required us to write about potential effects on communication of then-proposed anti-piracy legislation.

As Ben Franklin emerged from the Constitutional Convention in 1787, a woman
asked which form of government was decided upon.  Franklin famously responded:
"a republic if, you can keep it".  The Republic restricted government power
to protecting the individual's rights to liberty and property.  Franklin's
warnings have proved to be astute as the Federal Government has expanded at an
alarming rate over the past century, ignoring individual liberties and property
rights.  Instead, special privileges are granted to groups that can entice
politicians with money or a path to re-election.

Most recently, the entertainment industry has pushed for two bills to be
introduced into the House and the Senate. The Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and
PROTECT IP Act (PIPA) expand the abilities of the federal government to include
fighting internet piracy.  Although it may sound like a noble cause, the case
can easily be made that these bills enable the federal government to censor the
internet at the whim of copyright holders.

The Justice Department will be given the power to *force* internet
service providers to blacklist entire websites if copyright infringement is
reported. This poses a particular threat to websites that focus on
user-contributed content.

If SOPA and PIPA are passed, websites that rely on user-contributed content
will be unable to monitor content for copyright infringement in a
cost-effective way and will be forced out of business. This is a great economic
loss to our country and will only worsen our already dismal economic condition.

Services that rely on user-contributed content provide an easy way for casual
internet users share information on the internet for free.  This creates social
power for any participating users because people can interact and motivate
others with the information they share.

If I were to have a problem with the government or a corporation, I could
easily share my gripes with the public, at little to no cost, using a service
like Tumblr or WordPress.

If SOPA/PIPA were to force these businesses out of the marketplace, publicly
airing grievances via the internet would require a costly hosting provider, the
technical knowledge to develop a website, and significantly more time.
Meaningful computer-mediated social interaction will be greatly diminished.
Making it virtually impossible for these services to exist shifts power to
those in the entertainment industry--those who lobbied for SOPA and PIPA.

Copyright holders are given the power to dictate which websites should be
shutdown without trial.  Their claims are considered probable cause.  The
Fourth Amendment does not apply to webmasters, they must prove their innocence.
This is not only anathema to our Constitution, but also significantly impacts
the balance of power in computer-mediated social interactions. People will be
more wary when posting content, and will likely refrain from sharing their
opinions, fearful that they will face harsh punishments.

These new laws would make simply *linking* to a website that has
infringing content illegal. If I were to include a link on my personal website
to another hosting pirated movies, I, too, would be found guilty and would
have my website taken down and face punishment. Sounds somewhat reasonable.
But what about search engines like Google?  They'd be expected to filter their
results, which, given the number of pages Google indexes, is simply not
possible. Because non-compliance results in blacklisting, "Googling"
something could possibly become something of the past!   Without modern search
engine technology, finding information on the web would be extremely difficult.
Power, again, would be shifted to the corporations that have lobbied for this
controls because their information would be much easier to find.

Additionally, the distribution of tools and services that can circumvent
blacklists becomes illegal.  Many of these tools and services, such as virtual
private networking (VPN) and onion routing, have very legitimate uses. Many
companies use VPN to protect trade secrets and customer information when
transferring data over the Internet.  Onion routers, like Tor, provide for
completely anonymous social interaction over the internet, which is often used
by journalists, whistleblowers, and human rights activists.  These services are
critical to transferring sensitive information securely and maintaining
anonymity.  Without these tools, the internet becomes far less versatile and
reduces its capabilities for social interaction.

Realizing the catastrophic results of passing these bills, many citizens have
harnessed the power of the internet to warn their peers. Many prominent
opponents of SOPA/PIPA, such as Wikipedia, Tumblr, and Reddit, organized
"blackout" protests to raise awareness.  These services obscured or disabled
their content for a limited time to show users the impact they have on daily
computing, while, of course, explaining SOPA.  Wikipedia, in particular,
replaced the content of each page with a warning about SOPA on January 18, 2012
to educate its 162 million visitors.

The massive awareness that Wikipedia et al. raised validates the social power
these services provide to all Internet users.  The outrage caused many
Congressional sponsors of SOPA to reconsider their position.  As a result, the
House Judiciary Committee cancelled the SOPA hearing and have announced there
is no intention of considering the bill.

Employing the social power provided by the free and open internet, constituents
have made their opinions on internet censorship clear to their representatives.

For now, SOPA and PIPA have been defeated. There is the threat of future bills
similar in nature, because--according to the entertainment industry--piracy is
still a problem.  

I don't think the solution can come from a new law.  Laws restricting the
internet will likely be diluted incarnations of SOPA.  The entertainment
industry must realize the market for multimedia has changed. Technology
improves distribution, quality, and customer choice.  The entertainment
industry has simply been too slow to respond; pirates, however, have addressed
market needs and have capitalized, albeit unethically.

Cassette tape recording technology didn't kill the record industry in the
1980s; it encouraged innovation.  Piracy won't kill the modern entertainment
industry if energy is focused on innovation instead of lobbying.  This
misdirected effort decelerates the rate of innovation, disrupts
computer-mediated interaction, and corrodes our Republic, just as Franklin had
warned.
