---
category: meat
title: Weber Smokey Mountain Smoke Day 11
layout: post
---

I smoked a Boston butt for my Weber Smokey Mountain's maiden voyage to celebrate [WSM Smoke Day 11](http://tvwbb.com/forumdisplay.php?135-WSM-Smoke-Day-11-May-23-2015).

It was my first time using the smoker, aside from calibrating the temperature.  The night before, I trimmed the fat off of the meat and rubbed it in a modified version of the [Classic Barbeque Rub from the Oregonian](http://tvwbb.com/showthread.php?54303-Oregonian-quot-Classic-Barbecue-Rub-quot&highlight=oregonian).

{% include image.html image="IMG_0420.jpg" caption="The meat after adding the rub." %}

The next morning, I set up shop and took the meat out of the refrigerator.  I used the Minion method to light the coals, starting with 40 coals in the base of the smoker.  I added four medium-sized pieces of apple wood and one piece of hickory.

{% include image.html image="IMG_0427.jpg" caption="The setup: chair, a bag of Kingsford blue-bag charcoal, the Weber Smokey Mountain, a Weber charcoal grill used to light coals, and propane Weber in the background." %}

As the day progressed, I kept an eye on meat temperature, adjusting the vents and adding fuel when necessary.

{% include image.html image="IMG_1695.jpg" caption="Recording temperatures and vent positions to help keep temperature under control." %}

Around 9 hours in, the temperature began to hold steady around 170 degrees Fahrenheit.  Although it was safe to eat, I wanted the inside temperature to reach 200 degrees so that it would pull apart easily.  I finished it off in the oven.

I was pleased with the result, considering it was my first time.  For next time, I'll try using the Texas crutch so I don't need to use the oven and possibly adding a bit more pepper to the rub.

{% include image.html image="IMG_0428.jpg" caption="The finished product." %}

Cleaning up isn't very fun.

{% include image.html image="IMG_0429.jpg" caption="The aftermath: spent coals and wood." %}
